# FMO-complexes-efficiency-explained-in-terms-of-Quantum-networks
Taking inspiration from the books "What is Life?" by Erwin Schrödinger and "Life on the Edge: The Coming of Age of Quantum Biology" by Jim Al-Khalili and Johnjoe McFadden, I decided to investigate the possible implications that quantum mechanics could surprisingly have in biological processes. Of one of the most interesting ones is how photosynthesis occurs and specially how it is so highly efficient; indeed, without this efficiency, there would not be life at all. For many years it was universally thought that, even if quantum mechanics is surely the subleading theory of the Nature, the biological processes, occurring in large and hot environments, are substantially governed by classical mechanics. However, the efficiency that some green sulfur bacteria exhibit, together with many other phenomena (like mutations, the enzymatic activity, the magnetoreception of robin redbreast, etc.), a behaviour that can be explained only with the help of quantum mechanics.
In particular, I have considered the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) complex, a pigment-protein that allows the excitation received from a light source to be transfered to the reaction centre, where the chemical reaction of the photosynthesis can start. The most outstanding fact is that this transfer resulted to be very efficient, as many observations have confirmed. But what is even more surprising is the fact that these complexes have somewhat the ability to control the dephasing in such a way to make the transfer very efficient; in other words, and against every expectations, noise will have a fundamental role in this transfer enhance.
In order to study this phenomenon, first of all the system is considered as an open quantum one, since the presence of the environment cannot be neglected and indeed, it has also a relevant part in the game; then, as suggested from many experimental observations, I modeled the FMO complex as a network with 7 nodes corresponding to the sites where the chlorophylla molecules are located, plus one node, the reaction centre, where the excitation is expected to be in the end to activate the chemical reactions. Moreover, the sites are considered all linked (undirectedly) by some hopping interaction (of course, distant sites have a weaker hopping rate than closer ones) and there is a site, the number three, which the experimental evidence has shown to be directedly linked to the eight node, namely the reaction centre. Thus, describing the dynamics via a master equation with two different Lindblad operators, one describing the natural dissipation to the environment and one the quantum mechanical effect of dephasing, we have studied the efficiency of such an excitation transfer as the population observed, at late times, in the last node, called also the sink. Before treating, however, this model, we have studied a general N+1-network to extrapolate some informations as guiding lines for our scopes. The results have confirmed what we have anticipated before: the excitation transfer reveals to be enhanced by the use of the dephasing.
In order to solve the master equation, I have used Mathematica, which provides a powerful tool to numerically solve systems of coupled differential equations, even if they are many. There is a paper
